getsockopt(2)                                                    System Calls Manual                                                    getsockopt(2)

NAME
       getsockopt, setsockopt - get and set options on sockets

LIBRARY
       Standard C library (libc, -lc)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       int getsockopt(int sockfd, int level, int optname,
                      void optval[restrict *.optlen],
                      socklen_t *restrict optlen);
       int setsockopt(int sockfd, int level, int optname,
                      const void optval[.optlen],
                      socklen_t optlen);

DESCRIPTION
       getsockopt() and setsockopt() manipulate options for the socket referred to by the file descriptor sockfd.  Options may exist at multiple pro‐
       tocol levels; they are always present at the uppermost socket level.

       When  manipulating  socket options, the level at which the option resides and the name of the option must be specified.  To manipulate options
       at the sockets API level, level is specified as SOL_SOCKET.  To manipulate options at any other level the protocol number of  the  appropriate
       protocol  controlling  the option is supplied.  For example, to indicate that an option is to be interpreted by the TCP protocol, level should
       be set to the protocol number of TCP; see getprotoent(3).

       The arguments optval and optlen are used to access option values for setsockopt().  For getsockopt() they identify a buffer in which the value
       for the requested option(s) are to be returned.  For getsockopt(), optlen is a value-result argument, initially containing  the  size  of  the
       buffer  pointed  to by optval, and modified on return to indicate the actual size of the value returned.  If no option value is to be supplied
       or returned, optval may be NULL.

       Optname and any specified options are passed  uninterpreted  to  the  appropriate  protocol  module  for  interpretation.   The  include  file
       <sys/socket.h> contains definitions for socket level options, described below.  Options at other protocol levels vary in format and name; con‐
       sult the appropriate entries in section 4 of the manual.

       Most socket-level options utilize an int argument for optval.  For setsockopt(), the argument should be nonzero to enable a boolean option, or
       zero if the option is to be disabled.

       For a description of the available socket options see socket(7) and the appropriate protocol man pages.

RETURN VALUE
       On success, zero is returned for the standard options.  On error, -1 is returned, and errno is set to indicate the error.

       Netfilter allows the programmer to define custom socket options with associated handlers; for such options, the return value on success is the
       value returned by the handler.

ERRORS
       EBADF  The argument sockfd is not a valid file descriptor.

       EFAULT The  address  pointed  to  by optval is not in a valid part of the process address space.  For getsockopt(), this error may also be re‐
              turned if optlen is not in a valid part of the process address space.

       EINVAL optlen invalid in setsockopt().  In some cases this error can also occur for an invalid value in optval (e.g., for  the  IP_ADD_MEMBER‐
              SHIP option described in ip(7)).

       ENOPROTOOPT
              The option is unknown at the level indicated.

       ENOTSOCK
              The file descriptor sockfd does not refer to a socket.

STANDARDS
       POSIX.1-2008.

HISTORY
       POSIX.1-2001, SVr4, 4.4BSD (first appeared in 4.2BSD).

BUGS
       Several of the socket options should be handled at lower levels of the system.

SEE ALSO
       ioctl(2), socket(2), getprotoent(3), protocols(5), ip(7), packet(7), socket(7), tcp(7), udp(7), unix(7)

Linux man-pages 6.7                                                   2023-10-31                                                        getsockopt(2)
